(upbeat music)
- [Instructor} How was the Challenge?
Did you struggle or was it easy?
Even though we had to change a few lines of code,
testing exceptions is no easy thing to do.
I will walk you through the solution.
First, on Student Service Desk,
we need to create new method.
Get student by ID
when missing student not found exception thrown.
Again, let's use given-when-then structure.
Since we want to simulate missing data scenario
we don't need to pre-populate our database with students.
We also don't need to mock out any behavior
since you're dealing with a real repository.
We only need some random ID
for which we know there is no student.
When it comes to asserting exceptions,
AssertJ comes with many different styles
and it's up to you which one you find most readable.
For example, we can use non-BDD style
with assert that exception of type
or with assert that thrown by
where when and then are part of the same line of code.
If you prefer a BDD style, we can separate catching
and asserting exception by using catch throwable
and by using then or assert that method call.
Since the goal of this test is to verify
when get student is involved for a missing student,
a custom exception is thrown.
We can use catch throwable method from AssertJ
to catch thrown exception.
Under then part we can use BDD assertions then
or assert that method call and verify an exception
is of type student not found exception.
Our compiler is complaining as we haven't created one yet.
Let's create a new class.
And the only thing left is to extend runtime exception.
Now we can run our test.
Since we haven't changed anything yet
in students service clause, the test failed.
So let's change implementation and, as you probably know,
optional gives us a lot of possibilities
for handling missing objects.
Here we use the replacement object which is null.
So we can easily change this by replacing or else part
with or else throw that accepts an exception supplier.
In our case, we will throw a student not found exception.
After re-running our test, it should be green.
Lets run it.
Congratulations, you've just learned how to use TDD
to implement custom exceptions
and different ways to use AssertJ to perform assertions.